README.md, before:

# Usage :


```
Use Argo;
```

[Argo::submit](#submit)

[Argo::monitor](#monitor)

[Argo::output](#output)

[Argo::get](#get)

[Argo::status](#status)

[Argo::wait](#wait)

[Argo::list](#list)

[Config](#config)

[Blade YAML](#bladeyaml)

------

## submit 

```
$workflow_id = Argo::submit($yamlfile, $argoCommandLineParams = [], $bladeContext = null);
```
$workflow_id will be used as parameter to subsequent methods that manage and query the status and output of the submitted workflow. 

$yamlfile should include the full path of the file.

The optional arguments are expected to be associative arrays, e.g. :

```
$argoCommandLineParams = [ 
    'paramName1' => 'paramValue1' ,
    ...
];
``` 
and 
```
$bladeContext = [
    'variable1' => $variable1,
    ...
];
```

$argoCommandLineParams are appended to the call to `argo submit ..` as ` ... -p paramName1=paramValue1`

$bladeContext is used when the file name extension is `.blade.yaml`. Submitted files with extension `.blade.yaml` are auto compiled to a temporary file with extension `.yaml` under `storage_path('argo')` and the compiled file is sent to argo. 

<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>

## monitor

```
Argo::monitor($workflow_id)
```


queues an ArgoMonitor job which waits for the workflow to be completed. When the workflow is completed the job fires an ArgoFinished event. In order to catch the event, the listener needs to be registered in EventServiceProvider, e.g. :


```
    protected $listen = [
        \Theomessin\Argo\Events\ArgoFinished::class => [
            \App\Listeners\ArgoFinished::class
        ],
    ];
```


<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>

## output

```
$output = Argo::output($workflow_id);
```


<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>

## get


```
$obj = Argo::get($workflow_id);
```
returns all details about the specific resource as an object, e.g. 
```
{
  +"metadata": {
    +"name": "hello-world-parameters-d7fcc"
    +"generateName": "hello-world-parameters-"
    +"namespace": "default"
    +"selfLink": "/apis/argoproj.io/v1alpha1/namespaces/default/workflows/hello-world-parameters-d7fcc"
    +"uid": "16eb9aec-9260-40cf-8bbf-223448b60e94"
    +"resourceVersion": "191595"
    +"generation": 2
    +"creationTimestamp": "2019-11-08T16:42:59Z"
    +"labels": {
      +"workflows.argoproj.io/phase": "Running"
    }
  }
  +"spec": {
    +"templates": array:1 [
      0 => {
        +"name": "whalesay"
        +"inputs": {
          +"parameters": array:1 [
            0 => {
              +"name": "message"
            }
          ]
        }
        +"outputs": {}
        +"metadata": {}
        +"container": {
          +"name": ""
          +"image": "docker/whalesay"
          +"command": array:1 [
            0 => "cowsay"
          ]
          +"args": array:1 [
            0 => "{{inputs.parameters.message}}"
          ]
          +"resources": {}
        }
      }
    ]
    +"entrypoint": "whalesay"
    +"arguments": {
      +"parameters": array:1 [
        0 => {
          +"name": "message"
          +"value": "Kati trehei ne tin Mary"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
  +"status": {
    +"phase": "Running"
    +"startedAt": "2019-11-08T16:42:59Z"
    +"finishedAt": null
    +"nodes": {
      +"hello-world-parameters-d7fcc": {
        +"id": "hello-world-parameters-d7fcc"
        +"name": "hello-world-parameters-d7fcc"
        +"displayName": "hello-world-parameters-d7fcc"
        +"type": "Pod"
        +"templateName": "whalesay"
        +"phase": "Pending"
        +"startedAt": "2019-11-08T16:42:59Z"
        +"finishedAt": null
        +"inputs": {
          +"parameters": array:1 [
            0 => {
              +"name": "message"
              +"value": "Kati trehei ne tin Mary"
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}

```
<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>

## status

```
$status = Argo::status($workflow_id);
```
returns one of `["Running", "Failed", "Succeeded"]` or null if something went wrong, e.g. file syntax validation failed

<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>

## wait
```
Argo::wait($workflow_id, $timeout = 0);
```
waits for and returns when the workflow execution is completed or, if timeout >0, when timeout expires. 

<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>

## list

```
$text = Argo::list();
```

<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>

## config

The package publishes a [config file](../master/config/config.php) at config/argo.php where any argo global flag can by set. Defined global flags are appended to argo calls. Flags can also be set programmatically, e.g. :

```

$cluster = config('argo.global-flags.cluster');

config( [ 'argo.global-flags.username' => 'thisUser' ] );

```
<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>

## blade.yaml
A yaml file that contains blade directives. Double braces that are part of argo syntax must be escaped with @, i.e. `"@{{inputs.parameters.message}}"`. Examples :

```
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Workflow
metadata:
  generateName: hello-world-parameters-
spec:
  entrypoint: whalesay
  arguments:
    parameters:
    - name: message
      value: {{ $message }}

  templates:
  - name: whalesay
    inputs:
      parameters:
      - name: message       # parameter declaration
    container:
      image: docker/whalesay
      command: [cowsay]
      args: ["@{{inputs.parameters.message}}"]
```


and 


```
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Workflow
metadata:
  generateName: loops-
spec:
  entrypoint: loop-example
  templates:
  - name: loop-example
    steps:
    - - name: print-message
        template: whalesay
        arguments:
          parameters:
          - name: message
            value: "@{{item}}"
        withItems:              # invoke whalesay once for each item in parallel
        @foreach($things_to_say as $thing)
        - {{$thing}}           # item 1
        @endforeach

    - - name: sleep
        template: sleep

  - name: sleep
    container:
      image: alpine:latest
      command: [sh, -c]
      args: ["echo sleeping for 10 seconds; sleep 10; echo done"]

  - name: whalesay
    inputs:
      parameters:
      - name: message
    container:
      image: docker/whalesay:latest
      command: [echo]
      args: ["@{{inputs.parameters.message}}"]
```

<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>

Commit message:

Rename Argo::output method to Argo::logs (#9)
* Rename Argo::output method to Argo::logs to avoid confusion

README.md, after:

# Usage :


```
Use Argo;
```

[Argo::submit](#submit)

[Argo::monitor](#monitor)

[Argo::logs](#logs)

[Argo::get](#get)

[Argo::status](#status)

[Argo::wait](#wait)

[Argo::list](#list)

[Config](#config)

[Blade YAML](#bladeyaml)

------

## submit 

```
$workflow_id = Argo::submit($yamlfile, $argoCommandLineParams = [], $bladeContext = null);
```
$workflow_id will be used as parameter to subsequent methods that manage and query the status and outcome of the submitted workflow. 

$yamlfile should include the full path of the file.

The optional arguments are expected to be associative arrays, e.g. :

```
$argoCommandLineParams = [ 
    'paramName1' => 'paramValue1' ,
    ...
];
``` 
and 
```
$bladeContext = [
    'variable1' => $variable1,
    ...
];
```

$argoCommandLineParams are appended to the call to `argo submit ..` as ` ... -p paramName1=paramValue1`

$bladeContext is used when the file name extension is `.blade.yaml`. Submitted files with extension `.blade.yaml` are auto compiled to a temporary file with extension `.yaml` under `storage_path('argo')` and the compiled file is sent to argo. 

<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>

## monitor

```
Argo::monitor($workflow_id)
```


queues an ArgoMonitor job which waits for the workflow to be completed. When the workflow is completed the job fires an ArgoFinished event. In order to catch the event, the listener needs to be registered in EventServiceProvider, e.g. :


```
    protected $listen = [
        \Theomessin\Argo\Events\ArgoFinished::class => [
            \App\Listeners\ArgoFinished::class
        ],
    ];
```


<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>

## logs

```
$logs = Argo::logs($workflow_id);
```


<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>

## get


```
$obj = Argo::get($workflow_id);
```
returns all details about the specific resource as an object, e.g. 
```
{
  +"metadata": {
    +"name": "hello-world-parameters-d7fcc"
    +"generateName": "hello-world-parameters-"
    +"namespace": "default"
    +"selfLink": "/apis/argoproj.io/v1alpha1/namespaces/default/workflows/hello-world-parameters-d7fcc"
    +"uid": "16eb9aec-9260-40cf-8bbf-223448b60e94"
    +"resourceVersion": "191595"
    +"generation": 2
    +"creationTimestamp": "2019-11-08T16:42:59Z"
    +"labels": {
      +"workflows.argoproj.io/phase": "Running"
    }
  }
  +"spec": {
    +"templates": array:1 [
      0 => {
        +"name": "whalesay"
        +"inputs": {
          +"parameters": array:1 [
            0 => {
              +"name": "message"
            }
          ]
        }
        +"outputs": {}
        +"metadata": {}
        +"container": {
          +"name": ""
          +"image": "docker/whalesay"
          +"command": array:1 [
            0 => "cowsay"
          ]
          +"args": array:1 [
            0 => "{{inputs.parameters.message}}"
          ]
          +"resources": {}
        }
      }
    ]
    +"entrypoint": "whalesay"
    +"arguments": {
      +"parameters": array:1 [
        0 => {
          +"name": "message"
          +"value": "Kati trehei ne tin Mary"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
  +"status": {
    +"phase": "Running"
    +"startedAt": "2019-11-08T16:42:59Z"
    +"finishedAt": null
    +"nodes": {
      +"hello-world-parameters-d7fcc": {
        +"id": "hello-world-parameters-d7fcc"
        +"name": "hello-world-parameters-d7fcc"
        +"displayName": "hello-world-parameters-d7fcc"
        +"type": "Pod"
        +"templateName": "whalesay"
        +"phase": "Pending"
        +"startedAt": "2019-11-08T16:42:59Z"
        +"finishedAt": null
        +"inputs": {
          +"parameters": array:1 [
            0 => {
              +"name": "message"
              +"value": "Kati trehei ne tin Mary"
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}

```
<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>

## status

```
$status = Argo::status($workflow_id);
```
returns one of `["Running", "Failed", "Succeeded"]` or null if something went wrong, e.g. file syntax validation failed

<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>

## wait
```
Argo::wait($workflow_id, $timeout = 0);
```
waits for and returns when the workflow execution is completed or, if timeout >0, when timeout expires. 

<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>

## list

```
$text = Argo::list();
```

<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>

## config

The package publishes a [config file](../master/config/config.php) at config/argo.php where any argo global flag can by set. Defined global flags are appended to argo calls. Flags can also be set programmatically, e.g. :

```

$cluster = config('argo.global-flags.cluster');

config( [ 'argo.global-flags.username' => 'thisUser' ] );

```
<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>

## blade.yaml
A yaml file that contains blade directives. Double braces that are part of argo syntax must be escaped with @, i.e. `"@{{inputs.parameters.message}}"`. Examples :

```
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Workflow
metadata:
  generateName: hello-world-parameters-
spec:
  entrypoint: whalesay
  arguments:
    parameters:
    - name: message
      value: {{ $message }}

  templates:
  - name: whalesay
    inputs:
      parameters:
      - name: message       # parameter declaration
    container:
      image: docker/whalesay
      command: [cowsay]
      args: ["@{{inputs.parameters.message}}"]
```


and 


```
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Workflow
metadata:
  generateName: loops-
spec:
  entrypoint: loop-example
  templates:
  - name: loop-example
    steps:
    - - name: print-message
        template: whalesay
        arguments:
          parameters:
          - name: message
            value: "@{{item}}"
        withItems:              # invoke whalesay once for each item in parallel
        @foreach($things_to_say as $thing)
        - {{$thing}}           # item 1
        @endforeach

    - - name: sleep
        template: sleep

  - name: sleep
    container:
      image: alpine:latest
      command: [sh, -c]
      args: ["echo sleeping for 10 seconds; sleep 10; echo done"]

  - name: whalesay
    inputs:
      parameters:
      - name: message
    container:
      image: docker/whalesay:latest
      command: [echo]
      args: ["@{{inputs.parameters.message}}"]
```

<p align=right style="text-align: right"><a href='#usage-'> to top </a></p>
